.TH backintime-kde4 1 "Mars 2009" "version 1.0.24" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
backintime-kde4 \- a simple backup tool for KDE4.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B backintime-kde4
[ \-\-backup | \-\-backup\-job |
\-\-snapshots\-path |
\-\-snapshots\-list | \-\-snapshots\-list\-path |
\-\-last\-snapshot | \-\-last\-snapshot\-path |
\-\-keep\-mount | \-\-unmount |
\-\-benchmark-cipher [SIZE] |
\-\-help | \-\-version | \-\-license ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Back In Time is a simple backup tool for Linux. This is the KDE4 version.
For more information about Back In Time see backintime man page.
.PP
If you want to run it as root you need to use 'kdesudo'.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-b, \-\-backup
take a snapshot now (if needed) 
.TP
\-\-backup\-job
take a snapshot (if needed) depending on schedule rules (used for cron jobs)
.TP
\-\-snapshots\-path
display path where is saves the snapshots (if configured) 
.TP
\-\-snapshots\-list
display the list of snapshot IDs (if any)
.TP
\-\-snapshots\-list\-path
display the paths to snapshots (if any)
.TP
\-\-last\-snapshot
display last snapshot ID (if any)
.TP
\-\-last\-snapshot\-path
display the path to the last snapshot (if any)
.TP
\-\-keep\-mount
Don't unmount on exit. Only valid with \-\-snapshots\-list\-path and \-\-last\-snapshot\-path.
.TP
 \-\-unmount
Unmount the profile.
.TP
\-\-benchmark-cipher [SIZE]
Show a benchmark of all ciphers for ssh transfer
.TP
\-h, \-\-help
display a short help and exit
.TP
\-v, \-\-version
show version and exit
.TP
\-\-license
show license and exit
.SH SEE ALSO
backintime, backintime-gnome.
.PP
Back In Time also has a website: http://backintime.le\-web.org
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by BIT Team (<bit-team@lists.launchpad.net>).
